---
title: A folding bike!
---

In working up to what I'm hoping will be a camping-filled summer, I've been
doing some research on parks within public transport of New York City, and
I decided last week to expand my range by buying a folding bike. As the MTA
states on their [website](http://web.mta.info/bike/), folding bikes are
allowed on almost all public transportation around New York City (with the
exception of express buses), while "normal" (non-folding) bikes are allowed
on only limited trains and buses. Bikes are particularly restricted during peak
hours: leaving the city in the evening or returning to it in the morning,
which is roughly what I have to do if I want to spend the night outdoors in
the middle of the week.

I browsed around and did some research on folding bike brands, contemplated
buying a new bike, and then realized it was far more cost-effective to
instead buy a used bike and fix it up to my satisfaction. Part of that
freedom comes from a bit of experience with bike repair: I know that I can
evaluate a bike (has it been in a crash? what kind of repairs will I need
to make? is it stolen?) and fix glaring problems without too much trouble,
which means that I can feel fairly confident in buying a used bike. With
this realization in mind, I started looking on Craigslist and identified
three bikes that I wanted to learn more about. Two of the sellers never
replied to me, but the third and I set up a time to meet in Bay Ridge. We
met up, I checked the serial number to ensure the bike wasn't reported as
stolen, and I took the bike for a test ride around the block. The rear
brake needed tightening, the front derailleur was bad, and the
handlebar grips were sticky and gross, but beyond that, the bike was in
reasonably good condition, so I made an offer, the seller accepted it, and
I went on my way as the proud owner of a battered folding bike!

<img class="centerimage" src="../images/20170407-bike.jpg" width="40%">

I've made a couple of minor repairs so far: replaced the grips (hand
sanitizer is such a great trick for installing new grips!), oiled
various moving parts, tightened the rear brake so I can actually stop, and
so on. More repairs to come, including fixing a wobbly kickstand, figuring
out the front derailleur and realigning the handlebars.

<img class="centerimage" src="../images/20170408-bike.jpg" width="40%">

Since then it's been on the subway four times and the Metro North twice,
and nobody has given me a hard time about it. On the contrary, many people
actively ask where I got it and how I like it, and then share their own
biking stories. I'll take that as a win.

<img class="centerimage" src="../images/20170411-folding-bike.jpg" width="40%">
